If you're developing software,
you have a development process,
whether you realize it or not.
This process is made up of a series of meetings, communication,
documentation, coding time, handoffs,
testing, deployment, and hopefully some celebration every now and then.
I'm showing you here the tail end of a development process after
all the features have been groomed and are ready to be developed and released.
Do you see some things in this list that you're doing manually right now,
but wish you weren't?
Anything you wish you were doing,
but can't because it takes too long?
Some things on this list might even bring up repressed memories
of botched deployments and all-nighter rollbacks.
This is not a smooth process.
We humans are not amazing at consistency or reliability. I know.
I'm not talking about you or I,
it's the rest of them that we have to worry about.
Hey, you know who is consistent and reliable?
More of a what than a who.
It's your CI/CD server.
CI/CD could actually do most of these things for us,
leaving us cloud developers with more time to devote to feature development.
Code reviews could be enhanced by hints from
static analysis tools to fix code smells and to simplify complex code.
Merges are an easy win.
Compiling and running can be automated with ease.
When is the last time you ran a security audit on your code?
With CI/CD, you can say,
the last time I committed my code.
Deploying to any environment is a cinch with CI/CD.
Team testing can be replaced with automated acceptance tests.
QA can focus on prevention instead of reaction.
For client test, we can add automated smoke tests.
Over time, you'll build up enough confidence that the client
might even let go of the need to test extensively beforehand.
Raise your hand if you love rolling back after a bad deploy.
CI/CD is over there raising his hand right now.
I'll include celebration in the automation list since it's such a good feeling
to have a well oiled machine like this do so much for so little effort.
Celebration is given.
The only thing left on this list that CI/CD didn't improve was the coding.
But trust me, CI/CD has
far-reaching benefits that can influence
even the requirements gathering and grooming process.
So yeah, we'll count coding here too.